---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

Hmm, although this blog is maintained for a class, I hope it can be an exciting
and adventurous read.

That said, as per assignment:

**Q:** Why take Open Source Development?

**A:** Well, why not? [](#spoiler "Just kidding.")

More seriously (or maybe not, fairly nonchalant), I decided to take this course
for a couple of reasons. I suppose a stroll down memory lane is needed (queue
the flashbacks and some music. Maybe ready some popcorn, because this is kind of
dry).

To start with, I began my programming journey as a child... if you count being
curious about how my Megaman game worked and wanting to fiddle with that. Of
course, I didn't actually write any code then. I started with a CS class in high
school. My high school was kind of peculiar... our first programming language
was scheme and all the professors were advocating Emacs as the go-to editor.

I... really got into it. Very quickly, this editor suddenly became the core of
my workflow. I think I've earned the right to say that, with my configuration
being over 2000 SLOC and spending about 10 hrs on average per day (according to
wakatime.. what can I say? I use it to write code obviously but also to read
epubs and PDFs... sometimes I just leave it open too). Anywho, a lot of tools I
use in unison with suddenly were OSS. My operating system changed from Windows
to Ubuntu to Manjaro. To say the least, it was a great transition.

But then I realized I wanted to share the things I learned and used. Make
packages for other users. What other way than falling the footsteps of the
creator of Emacs, Richard Stallman? But there was also a minor inconvenience:
I didn't really know how to design easy to use software (because it may be easy
from my standpoint, but not necessarily other people). Also, how in the world
does someone make money off this? I mean, I love the idea of OSS, but I should
think about making a living too. And that's where this class comes in. Even the
first class seemed promising, so here's to a good semester.

Cheers!
