---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

This week was full of breakthroughs. I made 2 more edits to Wikipedia, learned some more UNIX commands, read an interesting article on how open source can help prevent election fraud, learned about humanitarian free open source projects (HFOSS), and made nice progress on the OSSD project I chose.


<a id="org9735599"></a>

# Table of Contents
- [Table of Contents](#org9735599)
    - [Wikipedia](#org9c8586c)
    - [Preventing Election Fraud](#org633cf32)
    - [Wappalyzer](#org4aca8a1)
    - [HFOSS](#org22050bf)
    - [The OSS Project](#orgf753a88)
    - [End of Post](#orgb070fe3)


<a id="org9c8586c"></a>

# Wikipedia

Making two more edits to Wikipedia was a different experience than my first two edits.

To start off, I was doing some research and came across the roche moutonnée Wikipedia page. The page said ' The French term is often incorrectly interpreted as meaning "sheep rock"', which I thought was ambiguous, so I modified it so say 'The French term is often incorrectly interpreted as meaning "sheep rock" due to [literal translation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Literal_translation) of the phrase.'. A literal translation is when you translate each word separately rather than taking the whole phrase together. This is often a problem with idioms and slang translations.

That was fine, and then&#x2026; everything became hard :fearful:. I was struggling to find another article to contribute to. For some reason, it felt like all the article I was coming across seemed okay as is. So, I pulled up my sleeves and went to Python's Wikipedia page. They had example code for factorial, which didn't handle user input errors. But I decided not to touch that, since I wasn't sure if handling user input was beginner friendly, which the article seemed to be. But then I came across the libraries section. This was full of very technical jargon, so I decided to give them hyperlinks. I think bullets of technical is just a hot mess, since 'multimedia' alone doesn't mean anything without context. Being able to see "content that uses a combination of different content forms such as text, audio, images, animations, video and interactive content" makes the word mean much more than if it was just thrown on there. So, I feel pretty good about this contribution :sunglasses:


<a id="org633cf32"></a>

# Preventing Election Fraud

I read ["Election fraud: Is there an open source solution?"](https://opensource.com/article/19/9/voting-fraud-open-source-solution?) this weekend. We've discussed election fraud in the past, when Karen Sandler was speaking.

So, I still approve of open source technology for election purposes :+1:


<a id="org4aca8a1"></a>

# Wappalyzer

[Wappalyzer](https://www.wappalyzer.com/) is a little extension that shows which technologies are being used on a webpage. I downloaded it for fun, just as a 'ooh what's that cool technology' or 'woah, I expected them to use X technology over Y technology' moments. Those moments have indeed ocurred, for example the college uses Red Hat for its servers. I fully expected them to use Windows :eyes:. Anywho, I bring this up because I noted that [opensource.com](https://opensource.com/) uses [Drupal](https://www.drupal.org/) which is licensed under GPL. I thought that was neat and worth sharing.


<a id="org22050bf"></a>

# HFOSS


<a id="orgf753a88"></a>

# The OSS Project


<a id="orgb070fe3"></a>

# End of Post

You'll also found my posts are synced now :stuck<sub>out</sub><sub>tongue</sub><sub>closed</sub><sub>eyes</sub>:. This is because I've changed the workflow. I now write the posts in org-mode and publish onto my site directly, and then export to markdown and publish on the OSSD class's site. Also, a hidden benefit of the export is that it automagically creates a table of contents. For my org-mode blog, I use a neat little package called [toc-org](https://github.com/snosov1/toc-org). This makes the table of contents every time I save :heart<sub>eyes</sub>:. I also use it for my org configuration file too and hope to incorporate in some readme files later :shipit:

Cheers!
