---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

Open source contribution can definitely feel intimidating, but
it should be doable nonetheless. I definitely agree with the
advice that one should read a lot code before starting their
contribution.

To start off with, I was fairly intimidated by the
[long list](https://icontribute.wordpress.com/how-to-contribute-to-open-source-without-coding/)
of just the *ways* to contribute to open source. I definitely
like the idea of contributing code, but I think that's a goal for
later down the road. It may be more reasonable to make my first
contributions documentation related or bug related instead.

A couple of projects that interest me are definitely the ones I
use everyday: Emacs, Manjaro, Git, etectera. However, *because* I
use them everyday, I think they may serve as a challenge, since I
sort of hold them on a pedestal in my mind.

If I were to approach code, I think I'd prefer the project to be
one of my stronger languages like lisp or python or C++, and I'd
probably be willing to do it for a big project if I thought the
project's standards and flow seemed natural to follow. A meetup
could probably help motivate and guide me (or so I think, having
been to only 3 meetups so far).

If I were to approach documentation, I'd be fine with any
project, but I'd really want to understand the snippets' overall
impact in the codebase.

Finally, I think blogging may also be an easy way for me to
contribute to OSS, so I may take that up as well (not sure if
this weekly blog counts for that).
